=head1 NAME

db-init - Initialize database resources

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   db-init file [file [...]]
      file - json file containing database resource definition(s)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The db-init script reads the provided json file(s), taking from them
the definitions of database resources that are required to be created.
It then ensures the resources are created idempotently.

=head2 Parameters

The following parameters appear in the JSON database specification file:

=over 4

=item database

The keys of this object are the names of databases to ensure. Each such
object has the following keys:

=back

=over 8

=item table

The keys of this object are the names of tables to create: each value is a
statement used to create the table.

=back

=over 4

=item user

The keys of this object are the names of database users to create. B<Note:>
Two actual accounts are created: one for localhost and one for host '%'.
Because of the way mysql resolves authentication, with the hostname
matched before the username, both accounts are required. Each
such user object has the following keys:

=back

=over 8

=item password

The plaintext password of the database user account to create.

=item grant

The keys of this object describe database objects to which to grant
privileges; the value of each pair describes the privilege(s) to grant.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

   { "database":
      { "personnel": {
         "table": { "emp": "CREATE TABLE emp (id, name, dept, manager)",
                    "dept": "CREATE TABLE dept (id, name, head)" },
     "user": { "app_pers": { "password": "sekrit",
                             "grant": { "personnel.*": "ALL PRIVILEGES" } }
     }
   }

=over 4

=item *

Creates the database "personnel" if it does not exist

=item *

Creates the tables "emp" and "dept" with the statements if they do not
exist.

=item *

Creates the user "app_pers@%" identified with the given password (in
plaintext) if it does not exist.

=back

=head1 BUGS/LIMITATIONS

=over 4

=item *

db-init does not check the attributes of the resources, only their
existence. Thus it will not change passwords of users or alter tables.

=head1 TODO

=over 4

=item *

Support giving password hashes

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

=cut
